UNSW Business School Centre for Social Impact ASSESSMENT HANDBOOK COMM3030 Social Entrepreneurship Practicum th Last updated 30 October , 2025 Summer Term, 2026 business.unsw.edu.au CRICOS Code 00098G This document is copyright. Apart from fair dealing for the purposes of private study, research, criticism or review, as permitted under the Copyright Act , no part may be reproduced by any process without written permission. Enquiries should be addressed to the Centre for Social Impact @UNSW Business School.

Acknowledgement of Country We respectfully acknowledge the Bedegal people as the Traditional Owners of the land on which The Centre for Social Impact UNSW is located in Sydney. We pay our deep respect to Bedegal elders past and present and extend that respect to all Aboriginal Torres Strait Islander peoples. Centre for Social Impact The Centre for Social Impact (CSI) is a national research and education centre dedicated to catalysing social change for a better world. CSI is built on the foundation of four of Australia’s leading universities: UNSW Sydney, The University of Western Australia, Flinders University and Swinburne University of Technology. Our research develops and brings together knowledge to understand current social challenges and opportunities; our postgraduate and undergraduate education develops social impact leaders; and we aim to catalyse change by drawing on these foundations and translating knowledge, creating leaders, developing usable resources, and reaching across traditional divides to facilitate collaborations. COMM3030 | Assessment Handbook | Summer Term, 2026

Assessment Summary Standard UNSW grades apply to this course. In order to pass, you must: • achieve a composite mark of at least 50 out of 100; • achieve a satisfactory level of performance in all assessment tasks; and • meet any additional requirements described in the Assessment details section. Assessment task Weighting Due Date and Time Learning Outcomes th Assessment 1: Individual Research Video 40% Monday 19 January by 11am (Week 3) CLO1, CLO2, CLO5 8-minute video & PPT Slides th Assessment 2: Project Deliverables 30% Wednesday 4 February by 11am (Week 5) CLO1, CLO2, CLO3, CLO5 3,000-word group report Assessment 3: Participation & Peer Evaluation 30% Participation – Ongoing CLO1, CLO3, CLO4 th Peer Evaluation – Friday 6 February by 5pm (Week 11) * Due dates/times are set at Australian Eastern Standard/Daylight Time (AEST/AEDT). If you are located in a different time-zone, you can use the time and date converter . Course Learning Outcomes (CLO) 5. Communicate complex ideas in a logical, succinct and persuasive manner. 1. Partner with an organisation to address a social challenge to develop professional capabilities. 2. Identify, analyse and apply social entrepreneurship knowledge and skills to address a social challenge. 3. Participate collaboratively and responsibly in a team. 4. Reflect on your personal and professional development including an enhanced understanding of ethical, social and environmental issues. COMM3030 | Assessment Handbook | Summer Term, 2026

Assessment Preparation and Submission Unless otherwise stipulated in the specific details for each of your Assessments, please prepare and submit your Assessments in accordance with the following. Assessment length The length of each assignment is detailed in the table above and in the detailed description for each assignment on the following pages. A buffer of +/- 10% applies to each assignment word count, time/ length. What are included in the word count for a written assignment? • Executive Summary (if required), all text, tables, figures, diagrams and charts, and table of contents (if required) What are excluded from the word count? • Reference list or bibliography • Appendices ( The appendix can be used to include additional information that you think can help the marker/ reader better understand the context of your findings. However, if the tables, graphs, diagrams, etc are crucial and directly related to your analysis, please include them within the main body of your report) Any text in the main part of the report (excluding the reference list and appendixes) that goes beyond the word count will not be read in grading the Assessment. Assessment format Times New Roman, 12pt font and 1.5 line spacing are recommended. Diagrams and tables Students are encouraged to include diagrams and tables in their assessments where appropriate. Referencing Style Harvard In Text Referencing is required for all your assessments. For the details on Harvard Referencing please see here - https://www.student.unsw.edu.au/harvard-referencing There is software available to you to make referencing easier: • Word has a built in referencing tool • As a UNSW student you also have free access to using and downloading Endnote on your computers. Assessment submission All assessment submissions must be in English using only references written in English. Assessment tasks should be submitted through the designated submission link on the course Moodle site. All written assignments are required to be submitted via Turnitin.

You are able to submit a draft version of your Assessment prior to the due date. This enables you to view the Turnitin similarity report on your work and decide whether it complies with the guidelines regarding referencing, academic integrity and plagiarism, before you submit your final version for marking. More information about plagiarism can be found here: https://student.unsw.edu.au/plagiarism It is your responsibility to ensure you submit the correct assignment under the correct link. After the due date and time has passed, you cannot resubmit. What is in the submission link at the due time will be considered the final submission without exception. Please take care of uploading your assignments. Full information about how to prepare assignments for electronic submission can be found in the Turnitin Student Guide . In the unlikely event that a problem should occur when submitting assignments online, students should make sure to send their assignment to the lecturer in charge before the deadline and resubmit using Turnitin as soon as the problem is rectified. Assignments not submitted through Turnitin will not be marked. Please note Moodle logs histories may be used to verify attempts to submit. Academic Integrity and Plagiarism Students need to familiarise themselves with appropriate referencing standards as well as what constitutes plagiarism and breaches of academic integrity (see here for further details). If you are unsure, help is available here . If you would like further and personalised guidance with regards to the University requirements and policy around referencing, you can also book a meeting with the Learning Centre who will be able to provide you with the necessary guidance. Instances of plagiarism or academic integrity breaches will be referred to the Student Integrity Officer for review and educative action as appropriate. The use of Generative AI tools for your assessments: Please see information in the online Course Outline in Moodle. Viva Voce Any student may be called upon to provide a viva voce (from the Latin meaning ‘living voice’) for any assignment. A viva voce is an interview style meeting where you will be asked to explain, discuss, or use information related to any assignment or work produced for this course. These can be used to ascertain knowledge and ability including the extent to which the student has undertaken the required reading, done preparatory work and can demonstrate understanding of what they have written or presented. Viva voces are used in conjunction with submitted assessment work not instead of submitted work. Feedback Feedback is provided on all assignments to understand what was done well and what could have been done better, and therefore learn. Unless it is the final assessment of the term, feedback on written assessment will be provided within two weeks