Student Guide: Assessment 2, Group Project Title Trading Strategy Development, Backtesting & Evaluation Due Date End of Week 10, Sunday 9:00pm 27-Apr-2025 Weighting 30% Task Written Report Word Limit 2,500 Word maximum Via Moodle course site, Turnitin similarity reports will be available to Submission students, if applicable 1. Overview This group project assessment provides the opportunity to apply quantitative analysis to the development of and/or evaluation of trading strategies. You will work collaboratively within a team to analyse financial data and implement quantitative research, such as conducting backtests and/or developing models based on real world problems. 1.1. Learning Outcomes Assessed This assessment addresses the following Course Learning Outcomes (CLOs): • Demonstrate an in-depth understanding of the principles, practices, and complexities of financial technology and innovation within global financial systems • Critically analyse and evaluate real-world financial problems using technological solutions and data-driven decision-making frameworks • Collaborate effectively within diverse teams to deliver well-structured and professional group outputs that reflect critical thinking and strategic planning. 1.2. Goals / Objectives The objectives of this assessment are to: • Work collaboratively in a team environment to achieve shared goals • Gain further experience in use of financial market microstructure data, including the ability to identify and select appropriate datasets for analysis • Develop domain knowledge in an area of personal interest within financial market trading CRICOS Provider Code 00098G

• Display problem solving skills useful in quantitative research such as initiative, creativity and original thinking. 1.3. Assessment Task Description As per the Course Outline the scope is quite broad, typically the Group Project will involve one of the following options (more details are provided in the Appendices): A. Design and backtest a trading strategy using historical market data B. Conducting detailed analysis and modelling of a key trading strategy input C. Practical implementation of a research paper. As a team, you will complete a well structured report, incorporating your research and analysis results with critical reflection. Higher marks will be awarded to projects that use logical data driven arguments and display understanding that extends beyond the standard course material. 2. Preparation Instructions • Team Formation: Students must form teams and submit their group details via Moodle. If no selection is made, automatic allocation will be made by the Course Convenor. You don't need to notify the Course Convenor about your choice of groups unless you have a non-standard request • Preparation : Review lecture materials and readings related to: o Statistics & Microstructure Analysis (Weeks 1 & 2) o Market Microstructure Models (Weeks 3 & 5) o Market Quality & Know Your Alpha (Week 4) o Backtesting & Performance Evaluation (Week 7) o Risk Management & Optimisation (Week 9) • Dataset: You will need to source historical data to complete the Group Project. If you have trouble identifying a suitable dataset, contact the Course Convenor for further guidance. 3. Assessment Guidelines Step 1: Agree the Group Project ‘Topic’ with your team To repeat from above, the Group Project typically involves one of the following: A. Design and backtest a trading strategy, e.g. Market Making or Proprietary Trading B. Key trading strategy input analysis, e.g. intraday volatility, inventory management C. Practical implementation of a research paper, e.g. Avellaneda & Stoikov (2008).

Step 2: Data Processing, Background Analysis • Obtain a dataset for your topic, then use a tool of your choice (e.g. Excel, Python, R) to clean the data, if applicable • Perform any necessary background analysis such as statistics and/or microstructure metrics Step 3: Implementation • Idea generation discussion within the team • Initial quantitative analysis based on a limited data sample. Step 4: Analysis & Evaluation • Review of initial analysis, subsequent implementation in broader context, e.g. more assets / symbols, longer time periods • Further review and revision of your analysis, if required • Evaluate and summarise your results. Step 5: Critical Reflection • What are the strengths and limitations of your work ? Please include data to support your arguments and/or tables, charts etc. • Provide your top three (3) recommendations to improve the implementation of your analysis in a real world setting and explain your reasoning. 4. Required Deliverables 1. Report – Maximum 2,500 words detailing methodology, analysis, and findings 2. Code or Spreadsheet – Any computational scripts (Python, R, Excel) used for analysis 3. Clean Dataset – The final version of the dataset used for analysis 4. Peer Evaluation Form – Each team member will submit an evaluation of group contributions File Format: PDF for the report; CSV for datasets; Python / R / Excel files for Code AI Transparency Requirement: If AI tools (e.g., ChatGPT, ML models) are used, students must document their usage and provide justification.

Appendix A: Design & Backtest a Trading Strategy A.1: Select either a Proprietary Trading or Market Making strategy • Provide a clear statement of your trading strategy and include all key assumptions necessary for implementation • Please also include an explanation on why you selected the specific trading strategy The following questions should provide a systematic way to select your trading strategy: • What is your 'Edge' ? What areas of markets interest you ? • What Time Horizon would you prefer ? High, Medium, Low Frequency • What Asset Class do you find interesting ? What Asset Class do you know most about ? Select between Equities, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), Cryptocurrencies, Fixed Income, Currencies, Commodities, New Economy Markets, e.g. Carbon Credits, ESG Strategies • What Data can you access ? All students have access to Factset • Which Trading Strategies do you understand best or wish to learn more about ? Market Making, Directional, Arbitrage A.2: Data Processing, Background Analysis • Obtain a dataset for your topic, then use a tool of your choice (e.g. Excel, Python, R) to clean the data, if applicable • Perform any necessary background analysis such as statistics and/or microstructure metrics A.3: Backtesting • Formulate a trading trading plan for your strategy, i.e. entry & exit signals, position sizing, trade execution rules • Perform a backtest of your trading strategy using historical data A.4: (Optional) Trading Strategy Implementation Extension • Propose an extension to your trading strategy and include an explanation of your choice of extension • Examples to the trading strategy could include: o Improvements in Price Prediction model, e.g. use of AI / ML techniques, advanced statistical techniques, addition of event flags, sentiment analysis o Improvements in Risk Management, e.g. advanced inventory management, adverse selection models, volatility indicators, advanced liquidity measures o More realistic modelling, e.g. transaction costs, short selling restrictions

A.5: (Optional) Repeat Backtest • Repeat the backtest with the revised trading strategy that incorporates any extensions to the original trading plan A.6: Performance & Risk Measurement • Provide analysis of your backtest with respect to a set of o Performance metrics o Risk metrics o Risk / Return metrics o Other metrics if appropriate • (Optional) Compare the results between your initial and subsequent backtest. A.7: Relationship to Assessment 1 The table below shows how each of the three (3) activities within Assessment 1 are related to Assessment 2 Group Projects that involves backtesting a trading strategy. Step / Task Proprietary Trading Market Making Data Processing Ass 1: Act 1 Ass 1: Act 1 Microstructure Analysis Ass 1: Act 1 Ass 1: Act 1 Statistical Analysis Ass 1: Ac