FINS3616 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS FINANCE Janghoon Shon (University of New South Wales)

TEXTBOOK(S) rd - Main: International Financial Management, Bekaert & Hodrick (3 Edition) th - Optional: Multinational Financial Management, Shapiro & Hanouna (11 Edition)  2

PLAN W1: Introduction to International finance & exchange rates W2: Description of FX markets & analysis of exchange rate risk W3: International parity conditions W4: Exchange rate systems and fundamentals W5: Exchange rate trading and forecasting W6: Flexi Week W7: Foreign currency derivatives W8: FX risk hedging and management within multinationals W9: International corporate issues W10: International financing: cross-listing and Eurobonds  3

ASSESSMENTS Item % Evaluation Format/Deadlines Mid-term exam 20 At Week 4 (Moodle online), covers Week 1 to Week 4 Saturday, June 28th, 14:00-15:00 with a 15-minute-buffer iLab assignment 15 At Week 7, a formal analysis on a currency exchange rate th Deadline: F riday, July 18 , 17:00 Individual project 25 At Week 11, a formal analysis on a firm/stock Deadline: F riday, August 15th, 17:00 Final exam 40 Inspera Exam (Central Final Exam Period – In Person), covers Week 1 to Week 10  4

PLAN W1: Introduction to International finance & exchange rates W2: Description of FX markets & analysis of exchange rate risk W3: International parity conditions (W3) W4: Exchange rate systems and fundamentals (W4) th MID-TERM, June 28 (W4) W5: Exchange rate trading and forecasting (W5) W6: Flexi Week iLab assignment, W7 W7: Foreign currency derivatives (W7) W8: FX risk hedging and management within multinationals (W8) W9: International corporate issues (W9) Final Exam, Date TBD W10: International financing: cross-listing and Eurobonds (W10) Individual Project, W11  5

MID-TERM EXAM Format: Online th Time: Saturday, June 28 , 1400-1500 with a 15-minute-buffer Question types: Single choices and numerical responses (fill-in blanks) Duration: 1 hour Coverage: Week 1 – Week 4 % Evaluation: 20% Let me know if you have issues with the exam time.  6

ILAB ASSIGNMENT Format: Moodle submission Due: Friday, July 18th, 17:00 % Evaluation: 15% The task of the project is to forecast foreign exchange rates using regression models and to understand how to use forecast information. Each student is required to attend an iLab session in Week 3 or Week 4 in order to learn how to use the FACTSET Database to access historical exchange rate data and macroeconomic information. Students are required to download historical data from the FACTSET database and answer the list of assigned questions. Each student will submit an individual assignment online through Moodle at the end of Week 7 . The specific details of the project, as well as the specific assessment criteria, will be available on Moodle by Week 4. Students are also expected to conduct their own research for this assignment.  7

INDIVIDUAL PROJECT Format: Moodle submission Due: Friday, August 15th, 17:00 % Evaluation: 25% The task of the project is to estimate the impact of currency on a stock and analyze the reason of the impact. Each student will submit an individual assignment online through Moodle at the end of Week 11 . The specific details of the project, as well as the specific assessment criteria, will be available on Moodle by Week 7. Students are also expected to conduct their own research for this assignment.  8

FINAL EXAM Format: Inspera Exam (Central Final Exam Period – In Person) Time: TBD (by the school) Question types: single choices, numerical responses (fill-in blanks), and short essay questions Duration: 2 hours Coverage: Week 1 – Week 10 % Evaluation: 40%  9

COURSE ED-FORUMS AND ANNOUNCEMENT Course Announcement Regularly, Course Announcements will be posted via Moodle together with email notifications. Please keep an eye on the announcements for important information and reminders. Ed-Forums We will be using Ed Discussion for class Q&A regarding general administrative queries, lectures, mid-term quiz, and individual assignment. This is the best place to ask questions about the course, whether curricular or administrative. You can also learn a lot from others' questions and even find answers to your own queries by browsing through previous discussions.  10

CONTACT Contact me via email ( j .shon@unsw.edu.au ) regarding course-related issues. You can also contact your tutor, iLab tutor, and TAs for related matters. Yiru (Penny) Wang: yiru .wang2@student.unsw.edu.au Huaizhou (Will) Li: huaizhou .li@unsw.edu.au  11