UNSW Course Outline MATH1241 Higher Mathematics 1B - 2025 Published on the 26 May 2025 General Course Information Course Code : MATH1241 Year : 2025 Term : Term 2 Teaching Period : T2 Is a multi-term course? : No Faculty : Faculty of Science Academic Unit : School of Mathematics & Statistics Delivery Mode : Multimodal Delivery Format : Standard Delivery Location : Kensington Campus : Sydney Study Level : Undergraduate Units of Credit : 6 Useful Links Handbook Class Timetable Course Details & Outcomes Course Description This course builds on MATH1131 or MATH1141 to provide a solid foundation for further study in mathematics for students in STEM disciplines. It is taken by undergraduate students typically in their first year. MATH1241 is the higher version of MATH1231 and has greater depth and a MATH1241 Higher Mathematics 1B - 2025 Printed: 3/6/2025 | 1 of 25

greater emphasis on proof and rigorous argument than MATH1231. The Calculus half of the course covers partial derivatives and multivariable chain rules, further techniques of integration and applications of integration, ordinary differential equations, sequences, series and Taylor series. The Linear Algebra half of the course introduces abstract linear algebra, covering vector spaces and linear transformations and eigenvalue and eigenvectors. In addition, there is a topic on probability distributions. Technology is used throughout the course through use of the Maple computer algebra system and students producing a typeset assignment that focuses on written communication skills. Course Aims The aim of this course is to provide a foundation for further study in mathematics. The course develops further techniques in Calculus, introduces abstract Linear Algebra, and builds on the foundation of vectors and matrices introduced in MATH1131 or MATH1141. The course also further develops mathematical communication skills and technical skills with computer algebra systems. Relationship to Other Courses Pre-requisite(s): For MATH1241, a credit or better is required in MATH1131, MATH1141 or DPST1013 Exclusions: MATH1231, MATH1251, DPST1014 Related course: MATH1241 is a higher version of MATH1231 MATH1241 Higher Mathematics 1B - 2025 Printed: 3/6/2025 | 2 of 25

CLO1 : Apply definitions and theorems in Algebra and Calculus to justify mathematical statements and solve problems. CLO2 : Apply concepts and techniques from Algebra and Calculus to solve problems. CLO3 : Use technology as an aid to solve appropriate problems in Algebra and Calculus. CLO4 : Communicate mathematical ideas in written and oral form using correct terminology and using technology. CLO5 : Apply concepts in Algebra and Calculus to unexpected contexts. CLO6 : Identify and construct valid mathematical arguments and proofs of theorems in the context of Algebra and Calculus. Course Learning Outcomes Assessment Item CLO1 : Apply definitions and theorems in Algebra • Weekly Lessons and Calculus to justify mathematical statements • Assignment and solve problems. • Final Examination CLO2 : Apply concepts and techniques from • Lab Tests Algebra and Calculus to solve problems. • Weekly Lessons • Assignment • Final Examination CLO3 : Use technology as an aid to solve • Lab Tests appropriate problems in Algebra and Calculus. • Weekly Lessons • Assignment • Final Examination CLO4 : Communicate mathematical ideas in • Weekly Lessons written and oral form using correct terminology • Assignment and using technology. • Final Examination CLO5 : Apply concepts in Algebra and Calculus to • Weekly Lessons unexpected contexts. • Assignment • Final Examination CLO6 : Identify and construct valid mathematical • Weekly Lessons arguments and proofs of theorems in the context • Assignment of Algebra and Calculus. • Final Examination Learning and Teaching Technologies Moodle - Learning Management System | Möbius Platform, Maple Application | Blackboard Collaborate MATH1241 Higher Mathematics 1B - 2025 Printed: 3/6/2025 | 3 of 25

Learning and Teaching in this course Lectures Lectures start in Week 1 and continue until Week 10 with a break in Week 6. The lectures in Term 1 2024 will be provided by a set of pre-recorded videos. These will be available on Moodle. Classroom Tutorials Classroom Tutorials start in Week 1 and continue until Week 10 with a break in Week 6. They will be in-person and face-to-face. The time and location for your Classroom Tutorial can be found on myUNSW. You can change your tutorial via myUNSW until the end of Week 1. After that time, you can only change tutorials by contacting the Mathematics and Statistics Student Services with evidence of a timetable clash or work commitments. The Classroom Tutorial will be a mix of Algebra and Calculus each week. Participation in a minimum number of these tutorials is required and contributes 5% of your final mark. At the start of each tutorial you will be given a set of problems that you will work on in small groups. While you will not have these problems in advance, you should prepare by working on the suggested homework problems, indicated on Moodle. The Classroom Tutorials are designed to help you understand important concepts, develop skills in tacking new unseen problems and improve your written and oral mathematical communication skills. If your tutorial falls on a public holiday, it will be cancelled for that week. You can optionally attend another tutorial class that week or work on the material in your own time. Problem/Q&A sessions These are tutor-led problem based classes that will cover a mix of homework and other problems each week from Week 1 to 10 with a break in Week 6. They are also a place where you can ask anything. While in the Classroom Tutorials, you will work together with other students in groups guided by a tutor, in these sessions, the tutor will discuss the solution to problems with the whole class. These can be attended in-person or online and will be recorded. Attending live and in-person is recommended as you will be able to ask questions during the class. The time and location of this class is shown in your timetable on myUNSW as second class in the week for TUT. MATH1241 Higher Mathematics 1B - 2025 Printed: 3/6/2025 | 4 of 25

Weekly Lessons The Weekly Lessons are an integral part of this course; they help you to stay up-to-date with the course content and give an alternative view on the course materials. Moodle Log into Moodle to find announcements, general information, notes, lecture slides, classroom tutorial and homework problems, and links to Weekly Lessons and assessments. https://moodle.telt.unsw.edu.au/ Möbius All assessments in this course, including Weekly Lessons, use a system called Möbius. Information on how to access and use Möbius is provided on Moodle. Maple and Computing The aim of the computing component is twofold: 1. You will use the symbolic computing package Maple to conduct mathematics on the computer. This usage of Maple is integrated with the algebra and calculus streams and the assessments of this course, and is designed to enhance your understanding of the mathematics involved, as well as letting you use software as a tool to do mathematics. You will find the skills you acquire and things you learn useful in many other subjects of study, both within and outside the School of Mathematics and Statistics. Maple enables you to tackle larger, harder and more real-world mathematical problems, since it can handle all the difficult algebra and calculus for you. Furthermore, learning some Maple introduces you to some of the basic ideas of computer programming. 2. You will gain some experience in teaching yourself how to use a complicated computing package. Independently learning to use technical software is a valuable skill required in other courses at UNSW and in the workforce. Maple is available for Windows, Mac and Linux, but is not freeware. UNSW provides a free cloudbased virtual version of Maple that students in first-year mathematics courses can a